On the HUB we see a lot of new tool developers building tools with what we call
the "wall of inputs" where every input is listed one after the other. This
format makes the inputs hard to understand. Instead I want to encourage you to
build tools that look like this, with pictures and hotspots. The way you do
this is with drawings.

Similar to the loader, drawings are not available in the rappture builder, so
you'll have to edit the xml itself. You start off with the <drawing> tag and an
about section. Like all Rappture objects, the drawing has a label and
description. There are three parts to the drawing. The background section, the
components section which can include hotspots, lines, shapes, and text, and the
substitutions section.

The background section describes the background color and sets up the
coordinate system. By default the coordinate system goes from 0,0 in the upper
left corner to 1,1 in the lower right corner. You can change that if you want
by specifying the new coordinate system in the xml.

The components section holds all of the pieces of your drawing. In your drawing
you can draw lines by specifying x,y coordinate pairs for the points of the
line. You can also specify the color of the line, line width and if you want
arrows on the line.

You can draw rectangles by specifying the upper left and lower right
coordinates of the rectangle. It also allows you to specify an outline color, a
fill color and a line width.

Sometimes it is easier to just include a picture from somewhere else. To do
that, use the picture component and specify an anchor point for the picture, or
specify the coordinates of the upper left and lower right corders of the
picture, along with the file path of the image.

If you have a number of controls that all relate to a particular input, you can
combine those controls into a hotspot in a drawing. When the user clicks the
hotspot, the controls are revealed. It is similar to using the groups to group
inputs together.

To do this, you'll still need to have a control in your xml for the inputs.
Inside of the drawing, you can reference the control in a hotspot. When you
bring up the gui, rappture will recognize that the control is being used in the
drawing and won't render it twice.

You can include text in your drawing by supplying the coordinates and an anchor
of where to place the text. You can also specify the color and font.

The last section is the substitutions. Substitutions are a way of linking
components from outside of the drawing to components inside of the drawing. You
can think of them as variables for your drawings. You start by defining an
input outside of the drawing. like a string with some default text. Next if you
have an item inside of the drawing that you would like to have reference the
string outside of the drawing, you can create a variable inside of the
substitutions section. The variable needs a name and a path. The path lists the
control outside of the drawing that the variable is associated with. The name
is how the variable will be referenced inside of the drawing. In the text
component, we reference the variable using a $ and cury brackets.

You can also include more advanced substitutions that include a little bit of
logic. In this example, a boolean switch controls the background color of the
text component. To do this, first declare the boolean input in the input
section of the tool.xml file. next create a variable substitution that
references the path of the boolean control and has the name color. Next add a
map from yes, for when the boolean is turned on or set to true, to the color
yellow. Add another map from no, when the boolean is turned off, to the color
gray. Lastly set the fill inside of the text component to the color variable.
