Our first task is to introduce you to the simulation workspaces

You can get to the workspace by first logging into the hub and then locating
the My Tools module on your dashboard. In the All Tools tab, there should be a
tool called "Workspace".

You can use the launch button to start a new workspace (click) inside of your
browser.

The workspace is a linux desktop running somewhere here on campus that you can
view and manipulate from within your web browser. We loaded it up with software
that people commonly use to build simulation tools. We've also connected the
workspaces to super computing resources both on campus and available at other
universities and research facilities. And, as a developer, you get some disk
space so you can build your own simulation tools and do research.

Individual workspaces stay alive for about 14 days if not in use. This means
you can close your web browser (click click) and come back to the session later
by locating it on your user dashboard.

Open sessions are listed under the My Sessions module and can be accessed by
clicking the link.

If you want to close your workspace for good, use the terminate button in the
upper right corner of the workspace.

This will close the session for good.

You can also terminate a workspace by clicking (click) the close button in the
My Sessions module on your user Dashboard.

Sometimes the size of the workspace is too small to work comfortably in. You
can resize the workspace by clicking on the shangle in the lower right corner
and expanding it.

There is also a refresh button that allows you to refresh the view in case you
start seeing mouse trails.

Lastly, on most HUBs there are two different viewers available, an older Java
based workspace viewer and a newer HTML5 based viewer. You can switch between
the two by clicking on the gear in the upper right corner of the viewer.  If
you are using the Java viewer, there is a button in the lower right corner to
pop out the viewer, making it a separate window.
(click click)

This is convenient if you want the workspace to be the size of your desktop.
You can click on the pop out button again to pop the window back into the web
browser. The pop out feature isn't available in the HTML5 viewer.
(click click)

Another convenient feature of the workspaces is that you can share your
workspace with someone else. This is helpful when you are working with a group
of people to solve a problem, or you are in a meeting and want to show off your
work, but it is only working in your environment right now. You can share your
screen and let others see what is happening.

At the bottom of the workspace web page, there is an entry box that accecpts
the name of a person to share a session with.

You can enter the person's name or username. If you dont want the person to be
able to control the mouse or keyboard, you can set the "Read-Only" flag. After
you share the workspace, it will show up in the other person's My Session
module on their Dashboard and (click) they can open the session to view it.

Inside of the workspace there is a start menu that gives you access to a lot of
the available software, but the real power lies in the terminal window.
There is a button to launch a new terminal window at the bottom of the
workspace.

The workspaces also include a number of popular editors like vi, emacs, and
geany. If you are not familiar with the text editor applications, Geany is a
good place to start. It incorporates a lot of useful features like syntax
highlighting and has an easy to use, intuitive intetrface.

If you come across a piece of software that you need for your research but
doesn't appear to be installed in the workspace you can try looking for it
using ChUSE.

There is some software that we have to manually install, or we
have multiple versions of the software installed, so you need to setup your
workspace environment to properly find it. ChUSE lets you see and search for
software packages that we have manually installed. Once you find a piece of
software that you want to have your workspace environment setup for, click the
checkbox and every new xterm you open will be setup to run that piece of
software. Some important environments we will be using include Rappture and
Matlab 8.4

Your workspace and desktop environments are different. They don't share a
common hard drive. There are a couple ways to move files between your workspace
and your desktop. An easy way to download files from your workspace environment
to your desktop is to use "exportfile".

You give the name of the file you want to export and it will download the file
from the workspace to your desktop.

To upload a file from your desktop to the workspace environment you can use the
importfile command.

This will open a popup web page asking you to choose the file you want to
upload (click click)

and transfer it from your desktop to the workspace environment.

Lastly, you can use sftp to transfer files. You just need your hub username and
password and an sftp client.

