I want to take you on a little trip back in time. Does anyone remember the year
1985? It was a good year. Universal Pictures released the hit movie Back to the
Future, Don Henley was killing the charts with his single The Boys of Summer.
Superbowl 19 featured the 49ers vs Miami. Any guesses at the Quarterbacks for
each team? Anyone know who won? Tetris had just come out for the IBM PC, and a
graduate student here at Purdue University was writing a program named SEQUAL
to simulation the quantum effects inside of resonant tunnenling diodes.

Back then, you wrote a program and maybe you got to share it with one or two
people in your group. If anyone from outside of your group wanted to run your
program, they first had to write a letter to your professor, include $10, then
these guys would go find your program, copy it on to magnetic tape, and then
they would send you the copy. Then you got to load it on your computer, fight
with compiling it and understanding what it was doing. As you can imagine, not
many people were up for all that work, so we can probably cound on one hand how
many times the program was run by people outside of the group. About 15 years
later this same simulator was placed on nanohub.org with a graphical user
interface and when we look at it now, we can see that there is a community of
people interested in it. there are over 1500 people who have run it, it has
been cited a number of times, people are asking questions about it and writing
reviews. So while the magnetic tape cost $10, having a live tool that others
can run and build upon is priceless. This is really true because as you perform
your research, one of the things you will have to keep in mind is the impact
that your research has on the field and the world. A lot of people say their
research has impact or has a bunch of people using it. Putting up tools on
nanohub allows you to prove it.

The nanohub workspaces can run simulation tools, but one of the things we
require is that the tools have a graphical user interface. This is where the
Rappture Toolkit comes in. Rappture stands for the Rapid Application
Infrastructure. It's an open source toolkit that allows users to quickly build
graphical user interfaces for their software simulation tools. It focuses on
collecting inputs from the user, running the simulation software, and plotting
the outputs for the user. We've written a number of language bindings so it
will work with your favorite programming language.

On nanoHUB we've deployed hundreds of tools using Rappture and there are a lot
of features you can take advantage of.

There are three parts to Rappture. The Builder helps you put together your
graphical user interface and generates a tool description file called tool.xml.
The Runner launches a graphical user interface for your tool based on the
widgets specified in the tool.xml file. It allows the user to run the simuation
and generate a run.xml file which holds the output of the simulation. The
Runner reads the run.xml file to visualize the output of the simulation. Lastly
the tester allows users to setup regression tests for their simulation tool.

We'll start off by getting to know the rappture builder. There are 4 steps to
building a Rappture based graphical user interface. 1. Drag and drop your input
controls over to the tool interface section. 2. Next fill in a little bit of
information about the input parameters like parameter names, descriptions, and
default values. Once you have all of your input parameters specified, preview
the gui. Lastly, save the gui description to a tool.xml file.


Let me do a little demo for you. We'll build a graphical user interface for a
"Hello, World!" tool that will accept two inputs, a string specifying who to
say hello to, and a boolean specifying whether or not to include enthusiasm
when we say it. The output will be a string with the statement of hello.


